Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture on downloading image data so far with only dealt with prepackaged
datasets such as the endless dataset and the sofar 10 datasets.
But in real life and in real world problems you're going to be working with quote unquote real image
files like a JPEG file or a png file.
So let's learn about tensor flows built in tools for generating image data patches from directories
with real files.
First in order to do this we need to download a large zip file of data the zip file was too large to
upload to you to me directly.
So we have as a Google Drive link to this data set is available as a zip file called Cell underscore
images dot zip.
The link is a supplemental resource.
In this lecture it is also within the same Google Drive resource as a resource.
As a slide.
So you may have actually already seen it.
So I want to explore getting the data and in this lecture we're just going to walk through where we
can find that data and then downloading it and then getting the file path for it.
So let's go ahead and go to the supplemental resource link.
It's a supplemental resource link that is within this lecture or you can visit the link also in the
FAA cue lecture let's head to that link now.
All right.
So there's two different ways of getting this.
So if you've already explored our slides that correspond with the sections of this course you've probably
already seen this Google Drive that links to all the slides within this google drive.
You'll notice that there's cell images that zip.
So you can go ahead and click this and download it.
If you used our direct link from the supplemental resource for this lecture then that would have taken
you to a link that looks something like this.
It'll say something like woops there's a problem with the preview.
And that actually makes sense you can't really preview a large zip file.
All you need to do is hit here and click on the download button for this cell.
Images that zip.
OK so let's go ahead and download the cell images dot zip.
I'm going to fast forward until this is done downloading OK so that zip file finished downloading for
me.
Which you're going to do is locate that zip file on your computer.
Recall that I will be able to know where your download was save on your computer.
You'll have to figure this out.
But typically it's going to be under your Downloads folder and the next thing to do is to figure out
the file path for this zip file.
But first I want to extract the contents of the zip file.
So go ahead and just hit something like extract all both Windows and Mac OS have built in extraction
or unzipping tools.
Go ahead and unzip the file and we'll go ahead and just keep it to this cell images and it will take
some time because there are quite a bit of images in this dataset.
So keep that in mind.
I'm going to fast forward until this is done unzipping the image files.
All right.
That has now finished unzipping if you open up these cell images folder and you may see it twice you
may see cell images cell images depending on how you actually extract it.
We need to do is realize that there's test and train folders.
So what I want you to do is one directory up from test and train.
Just go ahead and grab the properties and then grab the actual location.
So you'll notice for my location it's on there see users downloads cell images.
So what I want to do really is either move this file to somewhere that's convenient for me or understand
the entire file path and then what I want to do is have the next sub folders be test train.
OK.
So go ahead and make sure that you either copy paste that file path I'm going to go ahead and move this
folder to a different location on my computer.
Once you actually understand where the file path is again you can do that just by checking the properties
here and checking the location.
Go ahead and open up a Jupiter notebook.
Make sure you've copy that file path.
All right.
Here I am in a new Jupiter notebook to double check that everything is working.
Simply run the following commands say import os which stands for import operating system commands and
then we're we're going to be able to do is go ahead and copy and paste the file path for that cell images
folder.
This folder then should have train and test directly under it and depending on how you unzip that you
may need to put cell images twice.
Again that depends on the exact way you unzip it.
Either way what we want really is to understand where the cell images folder is.
Go ahead and assign that string as your data directory once you have that.
Go ahead and type OS dot list D I R and then pass in the variable that you just created data directory
run that and you should see test and train strings as output if you're able to run these three commands
then you're good to go for the next lecture if you get any sort of error in running OS that list directory
you need to triple check your file path of where the cell images folder is.
Make sure you've unzipped that folder and that the test and train folders have been fully filled by
those image files.
I won't really be able to help you out here because I won't be able to know where you actually saved
this zip file and unzip it on your computer.
Only you can know that because you're the one that downloaded it.
So please if you get any error on this list directory line please triple check your file path.
OK so once you're able to list directories test and train you're good to go for the next series of lectures.
Let's get started.
I'll see you there.